
Using the SxC Validation Script
===============================

In order to help you make sure that your project is compatible with our engine, we've built an After Effects Script that will scan your project and report any error it encounters.

Script Basics
-------------

Current version is 2.1 (Released March 26rd 2013).

You can download it here for CS5 and above: sxc_validator_210.zip

To check if your project is good to go, open it in After Effects and then:

- File > Script > Run Script File
- Select the script
- Select, in the Project panel, your widget main composition
- Clic on “Project Analysis”.

The script now reports several key project information right inside it's UI: The number of compositions (plus the number of time they are used) and same goes for your layers and your placeholders. It also gives you your project depth, and the number of errors it found.

If the script finds anything that is not complient with our workflow, or anything that could impact visualy the final look once it's in our system, it will generate a text log, with links to the related wiki documentation for each problem it found.


I highly recommand you to run it regularly while you are developing your widget to make sure you take the appropriate steps. Discovering at the end that you went the wrong way is always depressing and irritating.

WARNING
^^^^^^^

The script is just a tool built to help you investigate, find and correct the issues your project might have. Because of some scripting limitations, it cannot scan everything and thus, report everything. If your project scan is successfull, it means that there is a very high probability that it will be compatible with our system without further modification.

When receiving your AE projects, I will review them and will report you back asap if I find anything problematic that was not raised by the script.

Please note that the script covers around 90% of what we support, and whenever I find a situation that can be added to it, I'll update it. Be sure to come back regularly for new updated versions.

Scoring System
--------------

Starting with the version 2.0 of the script, we introduced a “scoring” system built to help you estimate how fast and how light your project will be when turned into a Stupeflix Widget.

In the text log header, you'll see a “Score” line looking like this:

Score: 6.59 (average per layer)

It's a score based on the comps & layers, the depth, the effects and everything you put in your project. We assigned a default score to every items, depending on how they perform or impact our rendering engine.

The score found in the header as described above is your project total score divided by the total number of layers giving you an estimate of how time consuming it is. Here are the performences you can expect depending on your score:

- 0 to 1: Your project should render faster than realtime
- 1 to 2: Your project will be rendering around realtime. Slightly faster or slightly slower.
- 2 to 5: Your project won't probably be realtime, but should render in half realtime (twice your composition duration)
- 5 to 10: Your project will render, but will be really long.
- above 10: We won't accept project with an average above 10 as it would take too much time for our machines to render it.

This scoring system is way from being bullet-proof, and your project might be faster or slower to render than what we actually expect. But from the test we've had in house with a large variety of projects, we are confident enough to make it available for you.

Also, for each composition in the text log generated by the script, you'll have a score line looking like this:

SCORE : 3.1 (total comp layer score)

This is the total score of your comp, which is just a sum of all it's layer scores. With this info you can see what compositions are render intensive and try to optimize them for better performance. You can also have a look at this wiki page to have a better grasp on what is time consuming or not.